---
title: "About Me"
hidemeta: true
searchHidden: true
---

**Hi!  I'm Max.**  I'm a Roman Catholic currently training to become a theologian of the Bible.  I was born and raised in Oregon (West Coast = Best Coast) just outside of Portland.  Now I am grateful to call Boston my home.  Below is a little life story™ about how I came to choose/discern biblical studies as my career.

I was homeschooled up until high school.  (Thanks, Mom.)  Being the introvert that I was, I spent much of my life as a juvenile hermit.  It was during these times that I developed an affinity for all things software related.  I tried my hand at video editing, graphic design, 3D animation, pixel art, sound design, programming---you name it.

Going to high school changed a lot of that.  I really took to the political philosophy we were reading in seminar classes and began singing in a choir (not because of the political philosophy … I think).  My trajectory continued along this path for the most part.  By the time I was formally introduced to the science of theology in my junior year (2018), I was singing in five choirs and reading as much philosophy as I could.  But slowly philosophy gave way to theology.  Philosophy brought me pleasure, but theology brought me _life_.  I began to devour as much as I could, often arguing theological ideas with my older sister, who was taking a lot of university theology classes at the time, and my best friend, a Protestant of deep theological inquiry.

I'm going to pause the narrative to laud some of these theology books which so profoundly influenced my growth as a Catholic.  The book that triggered my hunger for theology was Chesterton's [_Orthodoxy_](https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/16769).  (The man is brilliant, and I wholeheartedly recommend all his writings.)  He opened my eyes to the beauty of the Christian faith in an intellectual way.  I also enjoyed Matthew Kelly's
[_Rediscover Catholicism_](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10160346-rediscover-catholicism).  Although I, a fool, read the book in order to find a more lenient faith, Kelly did introduce me to a new distinction:  the exterior practice of my faith v. my interior disposition towards it.  In other words, he opened a new quest for me to find the _core_ of Catholicism---what it means to be Catholic.  I am still seeking to understand the true nature of Catholicism to this day.  I believe I have only been _truly_ Catholic a couple times in my life, if at all.  Anyways, there are so many more books!  One day, I will compile a list of my top 100.

As I said earlier, choral music was a huge part of my life in high school---still is, actually.  I mostly sang Christian music, and I am certain that much of what I sang I absorbed into my very being.  My most religious experiences during high school were through choral music.  One moment in particular I remember quite well.  My chamber choir was performing Shenandoah, and during that piece—I can only describe it this way---I was _ontologically one_ with the music.  My very being was elevated towards God.  Somehow I, my choristers, the music, Beauty, Truth, and Goodness had all become inseparably fused as we sang.  When desolate, I often look back on that moment to draw strength, for the experience taught me much about mystery of the human person and the apophaticism of God, especially the fact that I know very little.

Despite my love for theology, I tricked myself into thinking that I would best serve God and the world through becoming a cetological ecologist.  (I ~~had~~ have a thing for whales.)  So I entered the University of Notre Dame, IN, with no intention of pursuing a theology major, picking up biology instead.  After failing to understand plant biochemistry, I switched my majors to Applied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics (_\*pauses to draw breath\*_) and Theology.  I had no idea that Notre Dame had a presitigous theological background, but I was about to find out.

Why that combination of majors?  I chose ACMS since I still believed I would end up somewhere in the STEM world as a data analyst or software developer.  I chose theology because I loved it, not because I believed that would one day I would become a theologian.  I saw theology as a means of increasing my faith and sating my intellectual curiosity about the most important matters.  But my desire to vocationally study and teach theology only increased.  In my sophomore year, I nearly dropped ACMS and switched to classics and theology in the College of Arts and Letters.  Looking back, it became quite clear to me that I was afraid to lose the (illusion of) worldly security ACMS brought me.  If I were more courageous, more prayerful perhaps, I think I would have made that switch.  But the summer after my sophomore year, I worked all summer on [Project Valjean](https://github.com/mcookly/project-valjean).  I fell in love with software development in a new way and tried to reorient my skillset to become a developer.  I tried and failed.  I didn't have the skills businesses were looking for,
and my choice of majors did not advertize me to this market well.  And finally, _finally_ after years of having one foot in each camp in my majors, I fully committed to becoming theologian.

This decision did not occur in the abstract but was intimately tied to my interest in biblical studies, specifically the early interactions between Judaism and Christianity.  I had taken a class under [Dr. Gary Anderson](https://theology.nd.edu/people/gary-a-anderson/) and knew immediately that I wanted to do what he did.  I wanted to understand what significance the Old Testament had _before_ Christianity and _after_, what the Old Testament originally described and what it described teliologically.

Hence I'm currently earning an MTS at the [Boston College School of Theology and Ministry](https://www.bc.edu/bc-web/schools/stm.html).  I will then pursue a Ph.D. and hopefully teach others and publish my research.  I want to help the Church in this way, and I believe I'm called to it.  Pray for me once in a while!

About this whole plain-text business, I've found I can't leave the programming world fully behind.  I know too much now about text editors, markup languages, VCS, etc. to drop all those tools in favor of Microsoft Word.  So over time I've been experimenting with different tools and workflows, finding what works for me.  I realized that other (usually younger) scholars are quite interested in my plain-text workflow, and some have asked for help in emulating it.

That got me thinking:  What if we can slowly deprecate Microsoft Word in favor of, say, [Typst](https://typst.app/)?  What if publishers and editors weren't handed `.docx` files but `.md` or `.dj` or `.typ` or `.tex`?  What if revisions and suggestions were handled through git, creating a space for discussions and collaboration over changes?

I want that world.  And if others knew more about it, I'm sure many of them would want it too.  Of course, it's difficult to supercede an established standard for digital scholarship, but at least I can try!  If you're interested in helping or discussing further, feel free to [contact me](/contact/).